README.md, before:

# 300 Days of AI – Challenge by Suman Khatri


Welcome to my 300-day journey of mastering Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning, and Data Science.  
Each day, I study, build, or code — and log my progress here.
---
<p align="center">
  <img src="/home/suman12/300-days-challenge/transformer.png" width="90%">
</p>

---

## About Me

Hi! I'm **Suman Khatri**, a Master's student in **Applied Artificial Intelligence** at  *Madan Bhandari University of Science and Technology, Nepal* — a enthusiastic learner.  

My mission is to **unleash the potential of data and AI** to tackle real-world challenges, particularly in the fields of **NLP, healthcare**, and **transformer-based models**.  

 I enjoy exploring:
- Foundation models and representation learning
- Neural networks and key-value memory mechanisms
- The science behind learning itself — from both theoretical and practical perspectives

This 300-day challenge is a commitment to consistency, depth, and public learning.  
Feel free to follow along, fork the repo, or connect for collaboration!


## Daily Progress Log

Check full log in [progress.md](./progress.md)

| Day | Topic                        | Folder          | Summary                          | Note                            |
|-----|------------------------------|-----------------|---------------------------------|--------------------------------|
| 1   | Key-value retrieval Networks | [day001](./day001/) | Explored key-value retrieval networks and memory mechanisms in transformers | Focus on query-key-value interactions |
| 2   | Logistic Regression          | [day002](./day002/) | Built logistic regression model and evaluated classification performance | Practiced gradient descent implementation details |
| 3   | Decision Tree Classifier     | [day003](./day003/) | Implemented decision tree classifier; learned splitting criteria and pruning | Visualized tree structure for intuition |
| ... | ...                          | ...             | ...                             | ...                            |

---

## Why This Challenge?

- Stay consistent in learning
- Build strong ML + AI portfolio
- Prepare for research or job
- Public proof of skill & commitment

---

##  Structure

Each day has:
- `notes.md` → what I learned
- `summary.txt` → key summary
- `code.py` or `.ipynb` → code demo

---

##  Highlights

- 300+ days of progress
- Covers ML, DL, NLP, Transformers
- Hands-on PyTorch, Scikit-learn, HuggingFace
- Weekly reflections & mini-projects

>  **My Favorite Daily Quest**

“Today, I take one more step toward mastering AI,  
not to impress the world, but to empower it.

I study not just to learn —  
but to build, to serve, and to shape the future I believe in.

Let consistency be my superpower.  
Let curiosity be my compass.  
Let AI be the tool I wield — with wisdom.”

— Suman Khatri | 13 July ,2025




## Day 1

Commit message:

Day002 production ready code update

README.md, after:

# 300 Days of AI – Challenge by Suman Khatri


Welcome to my 300-day journey of mastering Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning, and Data Science.  
Each day, I study, build, or code — and log my progress here.
---
<p align="center">
  <img src="/home/suman12/300-days-challenge/transformer.png" width="90%">
</p>

---

## About Me

Hi! I'm **Suman Khatri**, a Master's student in **Applied Artificial Intelligence** at  *Madan Bhandari University of Science and Technology, Nepal* — a enthusiastic learner.  

My mission is to **unleash the potential of data and AI** to tackle real-world challenges, particularly in the fields of **NLP, healthcare**, and **transformer-based models**.  

 I enjoy exploring:
- Foundation models and representation learning
- Neural networks and key-value memory mechanisms
- The science behind learning itself — from both theoretical and practical perspectives

This 300-day challenge is a commitment to consistency, depth, and public learning.  
Feel free to follow along, fork the repo, or connect for collaboration!


## Daily Progress Log

Check full log in [progress.md](./progress.md)

| Day | Topic                        | Folder          | Summary                          | Note                            |
|-----|------------------------------|-----------------|---------------------------------|--------------------------------|
| 1   | Key-value retrieval Networks | [day001](./day001/) | Explored key-value retrieval networks and memory mechanisms in transformers | Focus on query-key-value interactions |
| 2   | Logistic Regression          | [day002](./day002/) | Built logistic regression model and evaluated classification performance | Practiced gradient descent implementation details |
| 3   | Decision Tree Classifier     | [day003](./day003/) | Implemented decision tree classifier; learned splitting criteria and pruning | Visualized tree structure for intuition |
| ... | ...                          | ...             | ...                             | ...                            |

---

## Why This Challenge?

- Stay consistent in learning
- Build strong ML + AI portfolio
- Prepare for research or job
- Public proof of skill & commitment

---

##  Structure

Each day has:
- `notes.md` → what I learned
- `summary.txt` → key summary
- `code.py` or `.ipynb` → code demo
In `code.py`, I will write clean, production-ready code.
In `.ipynb`, I will use a more informal, personal coding style written in my own words.

---

##  Highlights

- 300+ days of progress
- Covers ML, DL, NLP, Transformers
- Hands-on PyTorch, Scikit-learn, HuggingFace
- Weekly reflections & mini-projects

>  **My Favorite Daily Quest**

“Today, I take one more step toward mastering AI,  
not to impress the world, but to empower it.

I study not just to learn —  
but to build, to serve, and to shape the future I believe in.

Let consistency be my superpower.  
Let curiosity be my compass.  
Let AI be the tool I wield — with wisdom.”

— Suman Khatri | 13 July ,2025




## Day 1
